EIP-5058:Lockable ERC-721 Standard (#5058)
ethereum/EIPs: EIPS/eip-5058.md

---
eip: 5058
title: Lockable ERC-721 Standard
description: Lockable ERC-721 tokens
author: Tyler (@radiocaca), Alex (@gojazdev)
discussions-to: <URL>
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: ERC
created: 2022-04-30
requires: 165, 721
---

## Abstract

> A secure locking standard for non-fungible tokens (NFTs). The NFT owner approves the operator to lock the NFT through `setLockApprovalForAll()` or `lockApprove()`. The apporved operator locks the NFT through `lockFrom`. The locked NFT cannot be transferred until the end of the lock period. NFTs that implement this standard can participate in NFTFi projects that are compatible with this protocol without leaving the owner's wallet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A secure locking standard for non-fungible tokens (NFTs). The NFT owner approves the operator to lock the NFT through `setLockApprovalForAll()` or `lockApprove()`. The approved operator locks the NFT through `lockFrom`. The locked NFT cannot be transferred until the end of the lock period. NFTs that implement this standard can participate in NFTFi projects that are compatible with this protocol without leaving the owner's wallet.
```

2. When the NFT is locked, it just cannot be transferred, it does not affect the use of the NFT, and the various rights and uses brought by the NFT can be enjoyed without distinction.
3. The NFT is always kept in the user's wallet. Even if the NFT is locked due to participating in the pledge, the NFT airdrop can still be claimed directly.

This standard manages the control of NFTs in a safer and more convenient way, enabling NFTs to natively support NFTFi activities such as locking, staking, lending, crowdfunding, etc., which will encourage NFT holders to participate more actively in NFTFi projects, indirectly Solve the value liquidity of NFT.

## Specification
The key words “MUST”, “MUST NOT”, “REQUIRED”, “SHALL”, “SHALL NOT”, “SHOULD”, “SHOULD NOT”, “RECOMMENDED”, “MAY”, and “OPTIONAL” in this document are to be interpreted as described in RFC 2119.

Lockable ERC-721 **MUST** implement the `IERC721Lockable` interfaces:
```solidity
// SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
// Creator: tyler@radiocaca.com

pragma solidity ^0.8.8;

> import "@openzeppelin/contracts/utils/introspection/IERC165.sol";

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
import "@openzeppelin/contracts/utils/introspection/IERC165.sol";
import "@openzeppelin/contracts/token/ERC721/IERC721.sol";
```

/**
 * @dev ERC-721 Non-Fungible Token Standard, optional lockable extension
 * ERC721 Token that can be locked for a certain period and cannot be transferred.
 * This is designed for a non-escrow staking contract that comes later to lock a user's NFT
 * while still letting them keep it in their wallet.
 * This extension can ensure the security of user tokens during the staking period.
 * If the nft lending protocol is compatible with this extension, the trouble caused by the NFT
 * airdrop can be avoided, because the airdrop is still in the user's wallet
 */

> interface IERC721Lockable is IERC165 {

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
interface IERC721Lockable is IERC721 {
```
You probably want to inherit from EIP-721.

    /**
     * @dev Emitted when `tokenId` token is locked from `from`.
     */
    event Locked(address indexed operator, address indexed from, uint256 indexed tokenId, uint256 expired);

    /**
     * @dev Emitted when `tokenId` token is unlocked from `from`.
     */
    event Unlocked(address indexed operator, address indexed from, uint256 indexed tokenId);

    /**
     * @dev Emitted when `owner` enables `approved` to lock the `tokenId` token.
     */
    event LockApproval(address indexed owner, address indexed approved, uint256 indexed tokenId);

    /**
     * @dev Emitted when `owner` enables or disables (`approved`) `operator` to lock all of its tokens.
     */
    event LockApprovalForAll(address indexed owner, address indexed operator, bool approved);

    /**
     * @dev Returns the current locker of the `tokenId` token.
     *
     * Requirements:
     *
     * - `tokenId` must exist.
     */
    function lockerOf(uint256 tokenId) external view returns (address locker);

    /**
     * @dev Lock `tokenId` token until `expired` from `from`.
     *
     * Requirements:
     *
     * - `from` cannot be the zero address.
     * - `tokenId` token must be owned by `from`.

>      * - `expired` must be greater than block.timestamp

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
     * - `expired` must be greater than block.number
```
NEVER use block.timestamp

     * - If the caller is not `from`, it must be approved to lock this token
     * by either {lockApprove} or {setLockApprovalForAll}.
     *
     * Emits a {Locked} event.
     */
    function lockFrom(
        address from,
        uint256 tokenId,
        uint256 expired
    ) external;

    /**

>      * @dev Unlock `tokenId` token until `expired` from `from`.

Reviewer 2: Why unlock it _until_ the expiration?

I'd say that it should probably remain unlocked after the lock has expired.

### NFT lock period
When the NFT is locked, the lock expiration time needs to be set. The expiration time must be greater than the current block time. After the lock expires, the NFT is automatically released and can be transferred.

### Bound NFT
This standard takes into account that some NFTFi projects want to learn more about NFT participation, such as viewing NFT information through lock-up contracts, so we designed a boundNFT. When the lock contract locks the NFT, it can choose to mint the boundNFT of the NFT to the lock contract address. The boundNFT is consistent with the original NFT metadata and other information, but the boundNFT has no value and cannot be transferred. It is just a lock certificate. When the user's NFT lockup ends, the boundNFT will be destroyed.

## Backwards Compatibility
This standard is compatible with current ERC-721 standards.

## Reference Implementation

> You can find an implementation of this standard in [RadioCaca](https://github.com/radiocaca/ERC721L/tree/main/contracts/EIP5058).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can find an implementation of this standard in the assets folder.
```
No external links.

## Security Considerations

> There are no security considerations related directly to the implementation of this standard.

Reviewer 2: Are you sure? There are almost always some security considerations.

What happens if there are multiple operators? As written, one operator can lock it and the other operator can then unlock it. This would need to be discussed.

---
eip: 5058

> title: Lockable ERC-721 Standard

Reviewer: Can we do extend this to ERC-1155?

Author: Yes, it can be extended to ERC-1155，whether it needs to be implemented in this proposal ?

Reviewer: Yeah, I think it would be better if we implement both ERC-721 and ERC-1155 at once. If it makes complicated, just ignore this comment. Thanks.

Reviewer 3: > Yeah, I think it would be better if we implement both ERC-721 and ERC-1155 at once. If it makes complicated, just ignore this comment. Thanks.

ERC1155 has few locked usage scenarios. The current protocol is mainly for ERC721, and ERC1155 will be extended later.

Author: > Yeah, I think it would be better if we implement both ERC-721 and ERC-1155 at once. If it makes complicated, just ignore this comment. Thanks.

ERC1155 has few locked usage scenarios. The current protocol is mainly for ERC721.

description: Lockable ERC-721 tokens
author: Tyler (@radiocaca), Alex (@gojazdev), John (@sfumato00)
discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/eip-5058-erc-721-lockable-standard/9201
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: ERC
created: 2022-04-30
requires: 165, 721
---

## Abstract

> We propose to extend the ERC-721 standard with a secure locking mechanism. The NFT owners approve the operator to lock the NFT through `setLockApprovalForAll()` or `lockApprove()`. The apporved operator locks the NFT through `lockFrom()`. The locked NFTs cannot be transferred until the end of the locking period. An immediate use case is to allow NFTs to participate in smart contracts without leaving the wallets of their owners.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We propose to extend the ERC-721 standard with a secure locking mechanism. The NFT owners approve the operator to lock the NFT through `setLockApprovalForAll()` or `lockApprove()`. The approved operator locks the NFT through `lockFrom()`. The locked NFTs cannot be transferred until the end of the locking period. An immediate use case is to allow NFTs to participate in projects like [NFTFi](https://www.nftfi.com/) without changing the ownership of an NFT.
```

> We propose to extend the ERC-721 standard with a secure locking mechanism. The NFT owners approve the operator to lock the NFT through `setLockApprovalForAll()` or `lockApprove()`. The approved operator locks the NFT through `lockFrom()`. The locked NFTs cannot be transferred until the end of the locking period. An immediate use case is to allow NFTs to participate in projects like [NFTFi](https://www.nftfi.com/) without changing the ownership of an NFT.

Reviewer 4: Please remove all external links.

     * @dev Lock `tokenId` token until the block number is greater than `expired` to be unlocked.
     *
     * Requirements:
     *
     * - `from` cannot be the zero address.
     * - `tokenId` token must be owned by `from`.
     * - `expired` must be greater than block.number
     * - If the caller is not `from`, it must be approved to lock this token
     * by either {lockApprove} or {setLockApprovalForAll}.
     *
     * Emits a {Locked} event.
     */
    function lockFrom(
        address from,
        uint256 tokenId,
        uint256 expired
    ) external;

    /**
     * @dev Unlock `tokenId` token.
     *
     * Requirements:
     *
     * - `from` cannot be the zero address.
     * - `tokenId` token must be owned by `from`.
     * - the caller must be the operator who locks the token by {lockFrom}
     *
     * Emits a {Unlocked} event.
     */
    function unlockFrom(address from, uint256 tokenId) external;

    /**
     * @dev Gives permission to `to` to lock `tokenId` token.
     *
     * Requirements:
     *
     * - The caller must own the token or be an approved lock operator.
     * - `tokenId` must exist.
     *
     * Emits an {LockApproval} event.
     */

>     function lockApprove(address to, uint256 tokenId) external;

Reviewer: Don't we need to have a parameter expired for this function?

Author: It has been considered that, similar to the allowance of erc20, different applications can lock some expired time, which is actually not very common. Therefore, the fully authorized method of expired is adopted, and the locked time is given to a trusted third party.

    /**
     * @dev Approve or remove `operator` as an lock operator for the caller.
     * Operators can call {lockFrom} for any token owned by the caller.
     *
     * Requirements:
     *
     * - The `operator` cannot be the caller.
     *
     * Emits an {LockApprovalForAll} event.
     */
    function setLockApprovalForAll(address operator, bool approved) external;

    /**
     * @dev Returns the account lock approved for `tokenId` token.
     *
     * Requirements:
     *
     * - `tokenId` must exist.
     */
    function getLockApproved(uint256 tokenId) external view returns (address operator);

    /**
     * @dev Returns if the `operator` is allowed to lock all of the assets of `owner`.
     *
     * See {setLockApprovalForAll}
     */
    function isLockApprovedForAll(address owner, address operator) external view returns (bool);

    /**
     * @dev Returns if the `tokenId` token is locked.
     */

>     function isLocked(uint256 tokenId) external view returns (bool);

Reviewer: Also don't we need to get the expiration block number ?

Author: You are right, I will add the expiration block time parameter.

Reviewer 3: add `lockedExpiredTime` function

Reviewer: Thanks for adding this. Please resolve this comment. I don't have a permission to do that.

}
```

## Rationale

### NFT lock approvals

A NFT owner can give another trusted operator the right to lock his NFT through the approve functions. The `lockApprove()` function only approves for the specified NFT, whereas `setLockApprovalForAll()` approves for all NFTs of the collection under the wallet. When a user participates in a NFTFi project, the project contract calls `lockFrom()` to lock the user's NFT. Locked NFTs cannot be transferred, but the NFTFi project contract can use the unlock function `unlockFrom()` to unlock the NFT.

### NFT lock/unlock

> Authorized project contract has permission to lock NFT through lockFrom method, locked NFT cannot be transferred, unless the lock time expires. Of course, the project contract also has permission to unlock NFT in advance through unlockFrom. Note: only the address of the locked NFT has permission to unlock NFT.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Authorized project contract has permission to lock an NFT through lockFrom method, the locked NFT cannot be transferred, unless the lock time expires. Of course, the project contract also has permission to unlock NFT in advance through unlockFrom. Note: only the address of the locked NFT has permission to unlock the NFT.
```

### Bound NFT Factory
Bound NFT Factory is a common boundNFT factory, similar to uniswap's erc20-pairs factory. It uses the create2 method to create a boundNFT contract address for any NFT deterministic. BoundNFT contract that has been created can only be controlled by the original NFT contract.

## Backwards Compatibility

This standard is compatible with current ERC-721 standards.

## Test Cases
Test case written using hardhat: [here](https://github.com/radiocaca/ERC721L/blob/main/test/ERC721Lockable.ts)

## Reference Implementation

You can find an implementation of this standard in the [assets](../assets/eip-5058/ERC5058.sol) folder.

## Security Considerations

After being locked, the NFT can not be transferred, so before authorizing locking rights to other project contracts, you must confirm that the project contract can unlock NFT. Otherwise there is a risk of NFT being permanently locked. It is recommended to give a reasonable locking period in use for projects. NFT can be automatically unlocked, which can reduce the risk to a certain extent.

## Copyright

> Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](../LICENSE).
```

Author: @Pandapip1 thank you, has been merged.

---
eip: 5058

> title: Lockable ERC-721 Standard

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title: Lockable Non-Fungible Tokens
```

> description: Lockable ERC-721 tokens

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
description: Lockable EIP-721 and EIP-1155 Tokens
```

Author: The protocol is currently only implemented for eip-721.

author: Tyler (@radiocaca), Alex (@gojazdev), John (@sfumato00)
discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/eip-5058-erc-721-lockable-standard/9201
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: ERC
created: 2022-04-30

> requires: 165, 721

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
requires: 20, 165, 721
```

---

## Abstract

> We propose to extend the `ERC721` standard with a secure locking mechanism. The NFT owners approve the operator to lock the NFT through `setLockApprovalForAll()` or `lockApprove()`. The apporved operator locks the NFT through `lockFrom()`. The locked NFTs cannot be transferred until the end of the locking period. An immediate use case is to allow NFTs to participate in smart contracts without leaving the wallets of their owners.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We propose to extend the [EIP-721](./eip-721.md) standard with a secure locking mechanism. The NFT owners approve the operator to lock the NFT through `setLockApprovalForAll()` or `lockApprove()`. The approved operator locks the NFT through `lockFrom()`. The locked NFTs cannot be transferred until the end of the locking period. An immediate use case is to allow NFTs to participate in smart contracts without leaving the wallets of their owners.
```

## Motivation

> NFTs, enabled by [ERC721](./eip-721.md), has been on the explosion in demand. The total market value and the ecosystem continue to grow with more and more blue chip NFTs, which are approximately equivalent to popular intellectual properties in a conventional sense. Despite the vast success, something is left to be desired. Liquidity has always been one of the biggest challenges for NFTs. Several attempts have been made to tackle the liquidity challenge: NFTFi and BendDAO, to name a few. Utilizing the currently prevalent `ERC721` standard, these projects require participating NFTs to be transferred to the projects' contracts, which poses inconveniences and risks to the owners:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
NFTs, enabled by [EIP-721](./eip-721.md), have exploded in demand. The total market value and the ecosystem continue to grow with more and more blue chip NFTs, which are approximately equivalent to popular intellectual properties in a conventional sense. Despite the vast success, something is left to be desired. Liquidity has always been one of the biggest challenges for NFTs. Several attempts have been made to tackle the liquidity challenge: NFTFi and BendDAO, to name a few. Utilizing the currently prevalent EIP-721 standard, these projects require participating NFTs to be transferred to the projects' contracts, which poses inconveniences and risks to the owners:
```

1. Smart contract risks: NFTs can be lost or stolen due to bugs or vulnerabilities in the contracts.
2. Loss of utility: NFTs have utility values, such as profile pictures and bragging rights, which are lost when the NFTs are no longer seen under the owners' custody.
3. Missing Airdrops: The owners can no longer directly receive airdrops entitled to the NFTs. Considering the values and price fluctuation of some of the airdrops, either missing or getting the airdrop not on time can financially impact the owners.

> All-of-the-above are bad UX, and we believe the `ERC721` standard can be improved by adopting a native locking mechanism:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
All of the above are bad UX, and we believe the EIP-721 standard can be improved by adopting a native locking mechanism:
```

> 1. Instead of being transferred to a smart contract, a NFT remains being self-custody but locked.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Instead of being transferred to a smart contract, an NFT remains in self-custody but locked.
```

2. While a NFT is locked, only the change of its ownership is disabled. Other utilities are not affected.
3. The owners can receive or claim airdrops themselves.

The value of NFT can be reflected in two aspects: collection value and utility value. Collection value needs to ensure that the holder's wallet retains ownership of the NFT forever. Utility value requires ensuring that the holder can verify their NFT ownership in other projects. Both of these aspects require that the NFT be kept in the owner's wallet all the time.

> The proposed standard allows the underlying NFT assets to be managed securely and conveniently and extends the `ERC721` standard to natively support of common NFTFi use cases including locking, staking, lending, and crowdfunding. We believe the proposed standard will encourage NFT owners to participate more actively in NFTFi projects and, hence, improve the livelihood of the whole NFT ecosystem.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The proposed standard allows the underlying NFT assets to be managed securely and conveniently by extending the EIP-721 standard to natively support common NFTFi use cases including locking, staking, lending, and crowdfunding. We believe the proposed standard will encourage NFT owners to participate more actively in NFTFi projects and, hence, improve the livelihood of the whole NFT ecosystem.
```

## Specification

The key words “MUST”, “MUST NOT”, “REQUIRED”, “SHALL”, “SHALL NOT”, “SHOULD”, “SHOULD NOT”, “RECOMMENDED”, “MAY”, and “OPTIONAL” in this document are to be interpreted as described in RFC 2119.

> Lockable `ERC721` **MUST** implement the `IERC721Lockable` interfaces:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Lockable EIP-721 **MUST** implement the `IERC721Lockable` interfaces:
```

```solidity
// SPDX-License-Identifier: CC0-1.0

pragma solidity ^0.8.8;

> import "@openzeppelin/contracts/token/ERC721/IERC721.sol";

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

    /**
     * @dev Emitted when `owner` enables `approved` to lock the `tokenId` token.
     */
    event LockApproval(address indexed owner, address indexed approved, uint256 indexed tokenId);

    /**
     * @dev Emitted when `owner` enables or disables (`approved`) `operator` to lock all of its tokens.
     */
    event LockApprovalForAll(address indexed owner, address indexed operator, bool approved);

    /**
     * @dev Returns the locker who is locking the `tokenId` token.
     *
     * Requirements:
     *
     * - `tokenId` must exist.
     */
    function lockerOf(uint256 tokenId) external view returns (address locker);

    /**
     * @dev Lock `tokenId` token until the block number is greater than `expired` to be unlocked.
     *
     * Requirements:
     *
     * - `from` cannot be the zero address.
     * - `tokenId` token must be owned by `from`.
     * - `expired` must be greater than block.number
     * - If the caller is not `from`, it must be approved to lock this token
     * by either {lockApprove} or {setLockApprovalForAll}.
     *
     * Emits a {Locked} event.
     */
    function lockFrom(

>         address from,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        address owner,
```

        uint256 tokenId,
        uint256 expired
    ) external;

    /**
     * @dev Unlock `tokenId` token.
     *
     * Requirements:
     *
     * - `from` cannot be the zero address.
     * - `tokenId` token must be owned by `from`.
     * - the caller must be the operator who locks the token by {lockFrom}
     *
     * Emits a {Unlocked} event.
     */

>     function unlockFrom(address from, uint256 tokenId) external;

Reviewer: seems we don't have this implementation.

Reviewer: also I wanted to know whether `from` is also needed to change `owner` or not.

     */
    function getLockApproved(uint256 tokenId) external view returns (address operator);

    /**
     * @dev Returns if the `operator` is allowed to lock all of the assets of `owner`.
     *
     * See {setLockApprovalForAll}
     */
    function isLockApprovedForAll(address owner, address operator) external view returns (bool);

    /**
     * @dev Returns if the `tokenId` token is locked.
     */
    function isLocked(uint256 tokenId) external view returns (bool);

    /**
     * @dev Returns the `tokenId` token lock expired time.
     */
    function lockExpiredTime(uint256 tokenId) external view returns (uint256);
}
```

## Rationale

### NFT lock approvals

A NFT owner can give another trusted operator the right to lock his NFT through the approve functions. The `lockApprove()` function only approves for the specified NFT, whereas `setLockApprovalForAll()` approves for all NFTs of the collection under the wallet. When a user participates in a NFTFi project, the project contract calls `lockFrom()` to lock the user's NFT. Locked NFTs cannot be transferred, but the NFTFi project contract can use the unlock function `unlockFrom()` to unlock the NFT.

> ### NFT lock/unlock

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### NFT lock/unlock

```

Authorized project contract has permission to lock NFT through lockFrom method, locked NFT cannot be transferred, unless the lock time expires. Of course, the project contract also has permission to unlock NFT in advance through unlockFrom. Note: only the address of the locked NFT has permission to unlock NFT.

### NFT lock period

> When locking a NFT, it is required to specify the lock expiration block height, which must be greater than the current block height. Upon the lock expiration, the NFT is automatically released and can be transferred.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When locking an NFT, one must specify the lock expiration block number, which must be greater than the current block number. When the current block number exceeds the expiration block number, the NFT is automatically released and can be transferred.
```

> ### Bound NFT

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Bound NFT

```

Bound NFT is an extension of the EIP, which implements the ability to mint a boundNFT during the NFT locking period. The boundNFT is identical to the locked NFT metadata and can be transferred. However, boundNFT only exists during the NFT locking period, and will be destroyed after the NFT is unlocked.
BoundNFT can be used to lend, as a staking credential for the contract. The credential can be locked in the contract, but also to the user. In NFT leasing, boundNFT can be rented to users because boundNFT is essentially equivalent to NFT. This consensus, if accepted by all projects, boundNFT will bring more creativity to NFT.

> ### Bound NFT Factory

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Bound NFT Factory

```

> Bound NFT Factory is a common boundNFT factory, similar to uniswap's erc20 pairs factory. It uses the create2 method to create a boundNFT contract address for any NFT deterministic. BoundNFT contract that has been created can only be controlled by the original NFT contract.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Bound NFT Factory is a common boundNFT factory, similar to Uniswap's [EIP-20](./eip-20.md) pairs factory. It uses the create2 method to create a boundNFT contract address for any NFT deterministic. BoundNFT contract that has been created can only be controlled by the original NFT contract.
```

## Backwards Compatibility

> This standard is compatible with current `ERC721` standards.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This standard is compatible with EIP-721.
```

> ## Test Cases

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Test Cases

```

Test case written using hardhat: [here](../assets/eip-5058/test/test.ts)

## Reference Implementation

You can find an implementation of this standard in the [assets](../assets/eip-5058/ERC5058.sol) folder.

## Security Considerations

After being locked, the NFT can not be transferred, so before authorizing locking rights to other project contracts, you must confirm that the project contract can unlock NFT. Otherwise there is a risk of NFT being permanently locked. It is recommended to give a reasonable locking period in use for projects. NFT can be automatically unlocked, which can reduce the risk to a certain extent.

## Copyright

> Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](../LICENSE.md).
```

## Reference Implementation

> You can find an implementation of this standard in the [assets](../assets/eip-5058) folder.

Reviewer 2: These should probably be individually linked. Also, this is a pretty comprehensive reference implementation - they generally should be somewhat smaller than this (although, I too like making my reference implementations way too long).

Reviewer 5: You don't have to remove it, but linking to a folder doesn't work correctly so you'll need to link to the individual files.

Author: Got it, I've linked to the individual  files.
